Symfony release checklist added. (#71)
atolye15/checklist: checklists/symfony-release-checklist.md

---
title: Symfony Release Checklist
category: Back-End
date: '2020-03-11'

> tags: ['symfony', 'release']

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tags: ['php', 'symfony', 'release']
```

> description: The list of the To-do's we have complete right before the deploy our app to stage or live 🚀

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: The list of the To-do's we have complete right before the deploy our application to stage or live 🚀
```

---

- [ ] Check dependencies in the composer.json file

>       Make sure the development and production dependencies are correctly defined and production release does not include development packages

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Make sure the development and production dependencies are correctly defined and production release does not include development packages
```

> - [ ] Check the environment values  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] Check the environment variables  
```

>       Check environment values in the `.env` file to prevent a leak of any sensitive information make sure there are no real data defined

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Check environment values in the `.env` file to prevent a leak of any sensitive information make sure there are no real data defined
```

> Check environment values in the `.env` file to prevent a leak of any sensitive information make sure there are no real data defined

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check the environment variables defined in `.env` file to prevent a leak of any sensitive information and make sure this file only includes example values
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- [ ] Check the logger configuration for the environment
Set the correct logging level for the environment and add email notifier for critical logs

```

- [ ] Test the Makefile is running as it should for all environment definitions

>       Once again, make sure the `Makefile` is running correctly for all the environments defined for the project

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once again, make sure the `Makefile` is running correctly for all the environments defined for the project
```

> - [ ] Open a merge pull request to the environment's base branch  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [ ] Open a pull request to the environment's base branch  
```

>       After the done Jira issue(s), open a merge pull request from issue(s) related branch to the environment's base branch

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the AC on Jira completed, open a merge pull request from issue(s) related branch to the environment's base branch
```

> After the AC on Jira completed, open a  pull request from issue(s) related branch to the environment's base branch

Reviewer: We can refer to #82 here
```suggestion
Merge pull requests which are completed their [coding life-cycle](/checklists/coding-life-cycle-of-a-jira-issue) to the environment's base branch
```

> After the AC on Jira completed, open a merge pull request from issue(s) related branch to the environment's base branch

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After the AC on Jira completed, open a  pull request from issue(s) related branch to the environment's base branch
```

- [ ] Define environment values on server

>       If any newly defined environment values exist in `.env` file, make sure they are defined in the `.env.local` with correct values on the target server

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If any newly defined environment values exist in `.env` file, make sure they are defined in the `.env.local` with correct values on the target server
```

> If any newly defined environment values exist in `.env` file, make sure they are defined in the `.env.local` with correct values on the target server

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If any newly defined environment values exist in `.env` file, make sure they are defined in the `.env.local` with correct values on the target server or continuous deployment tool.
```

- [ ] Merge approved pull request

>       Then wait for the deployment tool to be done while you enjoy a sip of your ☕️

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then wait for the deployment tool while you enjoy a sip of your ☕️
```

> - [ ] Visit the application to make sure it is deployed successfully

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [ ] Test the application to make sure it is deployed successfully
```
